How does a camel survive in this harsh environment?
Jehovah has uniquely equipped a camel for desert life.
What is inside the camel's famous hump?
It's mostly fat.
A healthy camel's hump can weigh 36 kilograms or 80 pounds.
It can draw on this fat reserve when food is limited.
When given an opportunity, a thirsty camel can drink up to 95 liters
or 25 gallons of water in just a few minutes.
Yet their bodies lose little moisture, even in extreme heat.
As a result, they can go weeks or even months without drinking water.
The camel's impressive ability to absorb and conserve nourishment and water
enables it to endure.
High in the mountains of North America, living conditions are unfavorable for most plants.
Yet the bristle cone pine not only survives, but can thrive at some 3,000 meters
or 10,000 feet above sea level.
These remarkable trees can live for thousands of years.
One key to their survival lies in their roots.
Shallow branching roots spread out and gather up as much water as possible.
Large, strong roots firmly anchor the trees against intense winds.
These remarkable trees are designed to make the most of a challenging environment.
As a result, they are among the oldest living organisms on the planet.
Butterflies play a vital role in pollinating flowers.
They also accomplish amazing feats of endurance.
Each year in North America, as many as 300 million monarch butterflies
complete a migration of some 4,000 kilometers
or 2,500 miles from as far north as Canada to a forest in Mexico.
Butterflies are also surprisingly resilient.
Some butterflies have been observed feeding and flying with up to 70% of their wing surfaces missing.
Butterflies may appear to be delicate and fragile.
But these small creatures display remarkable endurance.
As its name suggests, most Arctic turns breed in the Earth's far northern regions
where they take advantage of the short Arctic summer to feed and raise chicks.
But as winter approaches, they fly south to the Antarctic region
where they greet the arrival of summer in the southern hemisphere.
When summer ends, they return to the Arctic,
completing the longest known annual migration of any animal.
What guides the Arctic turn to reach its destination?
Scientists believe that the Arctic turns can sense the Earth's magnetic field
and use it for orientation.
But how they do this still remains a mystery.
Jehovah has given the Arctic turn an accurate means of guidance
to complete its long journey.
The blacksmith lap wing or plover is found in Africa.
It nests on the ground, often near water.
Its choice of nest location can bring it in contact with much larger animals.
When its nest is threatened, the lap wings sounds the alarm.
Sometimes the lap wing will attempt to draw an intruder away from its nest.
At other times, the bird will courageously stand its ground,
spreading its wings and crying harshly.
Lap wings have been known to attack humans and square off against elephants and buffalo.
At times, giving the larger animal a sharp strike with its beak.
Jehovah gave the lap wing the instinctive courage to protect its young,
enabling it to survive.
Very little rain falls in the arid wilderness of Sinai.
One of the few types of trees to grow here is the Acacia.
The wood of the Acacia tree is dense, hard, and resistant to insects.
Some types of Acacia trees are protected by thick bark and long, sharp thorns.
Acacia trees often grow closely together.
The branches of some Acacia's interlock together forming dense canopies.
Other Acacia's grow entangled thickets.
These natural defenses help the Acacia tree to endure.